
Ollama Web UI Project Plan Project Goals The primary goal 
of this project is to create a personal web UI for Ollama, 
which will be a Progressive Web App (PWA) hosted on your 
home server. The initial focus is on a minimalist chat 
interface that is mobile-friendly and allows for basic 
model selection. Key Features (Initial Release)
 * Chat Interface: A clean, minimalist chat UI with 
 distinct message bubbles for the user and the AI. * Model 
 Selection: The ability to select from the list of models 
 available on the server. * User Input: A fixed input field 
 at the bottom of the screen for typing messages. * PWA 
 Functionality: The application will be a PWA, allowing it 
 to be installed on mobile devices for a native-like 
 experience.
Technology Stack The project will use a combined 
React/TypeScript frontend and Python backend to leverage 
the strengths of each language.
 * Frontend: React with TypeScript for the user interface. 
 This provides type safety and a robust framework for 
 building a dynamic, responsive UI. * Backend: Python using 
 a framework like FastAPI or Flask. The backend will act as 
 the intermediary between the frontend and the Ollama 
 service running on your Ubuntu server.
Frontend (React/TypeScript) The frontend will be built with 
a "mobile-first" approach using a component-based 
architecture. Core Components
 * ChatContainer: The main component that displays the 
 conversation history. It will dynamically render a list of 
 MessageBubble components. * MessageBubble: A reusable 
 component to display a single message. It will handle 
 rendering markdown and use different styling for user and 
 AI messages. * ChatInput: The component for the message 
 input field and send button. It will be a fixed element at 
 the bottom of the screen. * ModelSelector: A simple 
 dropdown or list that fetches and displays the available 
 Ollama models. * LoadingIndicator: A small animation or 
 text element to show when the AI is generating a response.
Styling The UI will follow a minimalist design with a clean 
layout and a consistent color palette (e.g., a light/dark 
mode theme). Emphasis will be placed on ample white space 
and clear typography to make conversations easy to read. 
PWA Implementation The React application will be configured 
as a PWA using a service worker and a manifest.json file.
 * manifest.json: This file will define the app's name, 
 icons, and display settings, allowing users to add the web 
 app to their home screen. * service-worker.js: This script 
 will cache the application's static assets, ensuring that 
 the app can be loaded quickly and function offline.
Backend (Python) The backend will handle all communication 
with the Ollama service and serve the frontend assets. Key 
Endpoints
 * GET /api/models: Retrieves a list of available models 
 from the Ollama API and returns it as a JSON object. The 
 frontend will use this to populate the ModelSelector. * 
 POST /api/chat: Receives the user's message and the 
 selected model from the frontend. It will then forward 
 this information to the Ollama chat API (/api/chat), 
 stream the response back, and relay it to the frontend.
Ollama Integration The Python backend will use the official 
Ollama Python library or a simple requests library to make 
HTTP calls to the local Ollama API running on your server. 
This simplifies the process of sending prompts and 
receiving responses.
